>> The long awaited government
public report on UFOs has
finally been released.
What did we learn?
And what does it say about
the future of ufology?
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
As we've previously reported,
the Intelligence Authorization
Act for 2021 called
on the director
of National Intelligence
along with heads
of other intelligence
agencies to submit
a report and
detailed analysis of
all unidentified aerial
phenomenon collected or held
by the US government.
That report has
just been released.
Nick Pope who
worked for the UK's
Ministry of Defense
investigating UFOs on what this
all means.
>> The bottom line in this
nine-page report is that, yes,
these things are real, yes,
they interact with our military
jets, our aircraft
carriers, destroyers,
our pilots see them, our
radar operators track them.
But no, we don't have
the faintest idea
what we're dealing with.
And obviously, that's
not good enough.
And I don't think Congress
will think it's good enough.
So the only good
news in a way, I
suppose I would
say this is clearly
a preliminary assessment.
So really, we should
not think of this
as being any sort of definitive
position statement as opposed
to frankly little more
than a holding reply.
Yes, there's an acknowledgment
that there's a phenomenon,
that it's real,
that it's definitely
a flight safety issue, probably
a national security issue, too.
So think of it as a
springboard for work
that's going to be taking
place over the next few weeks
and months.
>> The report highlights that
the government has not had
a systematic way of collecting,
sharing, and analyzing data.
>> Essentially, one of the
report's key takeaways is that
there really is no uniform
data collection on this across
the US military and the
intelligence community in its
entirety.
It's been piecemeal.
But it talks about how
these things are detected
across multiple sensors.
And so again, it's radar,
it's electro-optical,
it's right across the range.
Again, within the US military
intelligence community,
there is concern about this.
One of the most important
things in the report
is the acknowledgment
that there is
unlikely to be a single neat
solution to the UFO mystery.
So don't expect a
single neat solution.
>> The government will
now classify UAPs in five
categories--
airborne clutter, natural
atmospheric phenomena,
US government or industry
developmental programs,
foreign adversary
systems, and "other".
Nick also reminds us to
read between the lines.
>> So in the report, we have
what is effectively a new way
of categorizing sightings into
a number of different baskets,
so to speak.
So one gets the sort
of misperceptions
and misidentifications and
the atmospheric phenomena,
and then there's the
enigmatically named "other".
That's the nearest
the report actually
gets to discussing
extraterrestrial or alien.
I mean, those are not
words that appear,
but I think again,
one has to read
between the lines with this.
This was never going
to be disclosure
as the UFO community viewed it.
This was always going
to be an intelligence
assessment of the phenomenon.
Now, whether this
categorization system
is going to prove to be
useful or not, I don't know.
I think the trick is going to
be to try and quickly identify
those sightings which appear to
have a technology behind them.
And they are asking
themselves, essentially,
could this be Russia?
Could this be China?
Or could it be something else?
If it's something
else, what is it?
What are we dealing with here?
We'll have to park that and look
out for part two when it comes.
>> Now that this public
report has been issued,
what can we look forward
to in the future?
>> Well, there definitely
will be a part two.
You cannot entitle a document
preliminary assessment and then
not deliver the full assessment
when you've got more data
and had a chance to take
a more considered view.
So I've heard mixed things
coming out of Congress
about this.
Some people have
certainly welcomed it.
Others, I think, have been
a little bit more lukewarm
and have said or implied we
were expecting a little more.
This is a small move
in some respects
but it's an important one.
I mean, this is not
the end of the story.
This is the beginning
of a proper grown up,
adult conversation about
this phenomenon, which
is now quite rightly not being
treated as fringe, conspiracy
theory, science fiction,
but is being treated
as what it is-- a serious
defense and national security
issue.
>> Those expecting full
disclosure from this report may
be let down.
But Nick Pope says there's
reason to be hopeful.
>> Yes, I understand the
disappointment of people who
are looking through it and
without wanting to make light
of it, sort of saying
to themselves, hey,
where's the aliens?
Just the existence
of this report,
the fact that Office of
the Director of National
Intelligence has produced this
for the United States Congress,
that this has gone
to the Intelligence
Committee, the Armed
Services Committee,
in both the Senate
and the House.
So you know, we should think
of this report as the iceberg.
What we're looking
at is the tip of it,
but a lot of the
really important stuff.
The classified annex, the
classified briefings going on
behind closed doors,
the further work
that the Unidentified
Aerial Phenomena Task
Force is doing as we speak
to take matters forth--
all this is not seen and
necessarily appreciated
by the media and the public.
So look, it's not all bad news.
>> This short preliminary
assessment may leave some
readers wanting more, but Nick
Pope has advice for readers
of the report.
>> Even though it's only nine
pages, it's worth reading,
reading twice, setting aside,
coming back to it a third time.
And every time, you know,
particularly if you're
reading this as
somebody who's had
any background in the
military and government,
this is not just objects
unexplained, case closed.
This is objects
unexplained, what the heck?
You know, we need
to engage on this.
>> Not too long ago, the serious
study of UFOs or UAPs was seen
as fringe or science fiction.
This report shows it is
now being taken seriously.
And as Senator Marco Rubio
said in his statement,
"This report is an
important first step
in cataloging these incidents,
but it is just a first step."
This is just the beginning.
We'll be watching
for what comes next.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.